Many people are put off from investing because they think
it’s too risky. But we take risks every
day in life and often make conscious
decisions about what we do and don’t do,
depending on the chance of something going
wrong or the potential reward we’ll get.
So rather than just ruling investing out
because you think you might lose money,
it’s worth taking some time to
understand how likely that is and
what you can do to take a level
of risk you’re comfortable with.
There’s no getting away from the fact that
you could lose money if you invest because
stock markets fall as well as rise, but
there are things you can do to reduce
the chance of this happening. And if you’re
not too worried about risk and stock market movements
you might be happy to take quite a lot of
risk in the hope you’ll get better returns.
The key is investing in a way
that you’re comfortable with.
So what are the main things to bear in mind?
Firstly, remember when it comes to
where you keep your hard-earned money,
there’s no escaping a degree of risk. Even
keeping it all in a cash savings account
isn’t risk-free. You won’t actually
lose money, but its spending power can
fall over time if the rate of inflation is
higher than the rate of interest you earn.
Secondly, whatever level of
risk you’re comfortable with,
a diversified portfolio is
what you should be aiming for.
If you only buy shares in a single
company – which is what many people do,
especially when they’re starting out –
your returns are entirely dependent on
the successes of that one company, which
makes it a high-risk strategy to take.
A lower-risk approach is to invest in funds.
With a fund your money is pooled with that of
other investors and then invested in a number of
different companies, giving you that all-important
diversification. This doesn’t totally eradicate
risk – but the diversification helps to spread it.
You can create a balanced, diversified
portfolio by putting your money into funds
that invest in different types of companies
and different areas of the world. That way
they’ll all perform differently, so if
some of your investments are struggling,
you’ll hopefully have others that are doing well.
You don’t need to pick a large number of
funds at the outset – you can build your
portfolio of investments over time. One year
you might choose a UK fund where your money
is invested in a collection of UK companies.
The year after you might go for a European fund,
US fund, a global fund, or one that invests
in Emerging Markets and so on. You can also
invest in funds which focus on specialised
sectors, such as technology or healthcare.
Once you’re ready to look at investment options,
we offer different ways to invest which allow
you to be as hands-on or as hands-off as you like.
Barclays Ready-made Investments (RMI) is a range
of diversified funds that invest in
different types of assets – shares,
bonds, and cash – and different regions. All
you need to do is select the level of risk
you are most comfortable with. If you’re new
to investing, these funds can be great as they
offer a simple way of getting started and
provide you with immediate diversification.
They’re not only for first-timers though –
Ready-made Investments are also useful if you’re
short on time or would prefer to leave the
task of selecting funds to the professionals.
If you prefer to select own investments though,
the Barclays Funds List is a great option.
Our list is made up of several funds
from each of the investment sectors we
believe are key for building a diversified
portfolio. There’s plenty of information
on each fund and its objectives –
what it is and what it aims to do.
So, whether you want to do it yourself or leave
it to the experts, there’s hopefully a solution
to suit you. The key is to decide how much
risk you’re comfortable with before you start.